[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as the leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
camp created this podcast to share a
professional experience and insights and
to help you be a better b2b marketer
never miss an episode by subscribing on
Apple podcasts now let's get started
[Music]
hello everyone
I've been doing several webinars and the
podcast interviews in the past five
weeks yes I am popular I found one
question particularly interesting and
that was from Jeff CEO of Amaka news and
he asked me hey Pam what are some
examples of questions you ask to
understand use those people great
question Jeff great question if you're
working with your sales team and don't
have a good relationship with them just
yet here are some questions that you can
ask to get to know them it's work well
for me and I want to share them with you
for stoddard here is the number one
question I asked and it always gets them
talking no exception whatsoever and the
question is hey salesperson how do you
handle rejections to salvage the
potential loss deal oh my god when you
start talking about how they handle
rejection it's like giving them a free
therapy session I am not kidding they
would talk about the different types of
rejections they encounter and the
frustration I'm talking about the
frustration the frustration of almost
getting the deal closed and losing it at
the last minute you know why it happened
to me multiple times now I'm working for
myself I have to do tons of sales
pitches yeah there were tons of deals I
didn't win I'm gonna admit that alright
interesting enough my salespeople can
always recount specific deals they've
lost and what they did before
and after that it's a question that
gives them an opportunity to tell their
personal stories alright and I'm simply
just smiling
and listening it works it works to
follow that questions I usually ask them
hey for those accounts which you lost
should the contacts come back to the
marketing database for further nurturing
why or why not then they start sharing
their perspective on the different types
of rejected leads what types makes sense
for nurturing and which one doesn't and
that valuable information for marketers
to help determine what to do with
rejected leads from the sales team it
helps you to work on customized outreach
to further communicate with these leads
and depending on how the conversation
goes with them I also ask what was the
biggest deal they close in a past two
years and why they think they were able
to close it they love talking about
their major victories and sometimes they
get up do their victory dance alright
again I am listening and smiling not
judging not judging I'd add them show
off the glorious moment plus who doesn't
like to share how awesome they are
alright I do then I ask them to dissect
their recipes for success that helps me
understand what they did right to close
the deal such as you know their game
plan their conversations their email
exchanges etc again it's really not
about interviewing them it's just a
casual conversation over a cup of coffee
between two colleagues the next question
is hey what content do you find most
useful and I usually have them walk me
through the typical sales stages from
prospecting qualifying them all proposal
down to the closing deals why do they
usually do at each stage what is email
communications look like what types of
content I incorporated into their emails
interesting enough most sales people
still love product specific collateral
and a case studies or white papers and
more more I asking for video format type
of content just saying just saying
alright
my last question is always how can
marketing or I help what can I do to
help them of course that opens the
floodgates for a long wish list but it
doesn't mean it doesn't mean that you
have to do them all you don't have to it
just gives you ideas of what they need
and helps you prioritize what you can do
to support them so those are the
questions to understand my sales people
over a cup of coffee number one how do
they handle rejection to salvage the
potential loss deal number two for those
accounts which they lost should the
contacts come back to the marketing
database for further nurturing why or
why not
number three what was the biggest deal
they close in the past two years and why
do they think they were able to close it
and before what content do they find
most useful at different sales stages
lastly how can marketing help what can I
do what can I do for you right so there
that's the list of questions I ask
myself peeps so what questions do you
ask to understand your sales people I
love to hear from you if you are
inspired by what you hear today please
leave a five star review and subscribe
to the show on your favorite podcast
platform or visit my website at Pam
dinner com forward slash podcast send me
any note or any question you may have I
would love to hear from you again if you
prefer watching video simply type Pam
tanner alright on YouTube channel and
subscribe don't forget one new video
every week so be well let's connect
again next week take care bye bye
[Music]
if you enjoyed this podcast please share
it with your colleagues and leave a
review on Apple podcasts
[Music]